Update validator docs (#6695)
pydantic/pydantic: docs/usage/validators.md

    return v

MyNumber = Annotated[int, WrapValidator(maybe_strip_whitespace)]

class DemoModel(BaseModel):
    number: List[MyNumber]

print(DemoModel(number=[2, 8]))
#> number=[2, 8]
print(DemoModel.model_validate_json(json.dumps({'number': [' 2 ', '8']})))
#> number=[2, 8]
try:
    DemoModel(number=['2'])
except ValidationError as e:
    print(e)
    """
    1 validation error for DemoModel
    number.0
      Assertion failed, In Python mode the input must be an int!
    assert False
     +  where False = isinstance('2', int) [type=assertion_error, input_value='2', input_type=str]
    """
```

The same "modes" apply to `@field_validator`, which is discussed in the next section.

### Ordering of validators within `Annotated`

Order of validation metadata within `Annotated` matters.
Validation goes from right to left and back.
That is, it goes from right to left running all "before" validators (or calling into "wrap" validators), then left to right back out calling all "after" validators.

In the following example, `func2` will be called before `func1`.

```py test="skip" lint="skip" upgrade="skip"
MyVal = Annotated[int, AfterValidator(func1), BeforeValidator(func2)]
```

> ## Field validators

Reviewer: I feel like it might make more sense to start with this section than the annotated validators, since 1, this is closer to existing usage, and 2, it doesn't introduce the concept of using `Annotated`. I feel like it introduces just the concept of a validator function, which then motivates the idea of using `Annotated` validators as a way to make them reusable by way of a reused type annotation (rather than needing to set up the validator on every model you want to use it with).

I'm fine if you disagree, I just think this topic is quicker to understand and lowers the barrier to understand the annotated ones.

        if isinstance(v, str):
            # info.field_name is the name of the field being validated
            is_alphanumeric = v.replace(' ', '').isalnum()
            assert is_alphanumeric, f'{info.field_name} must be alphanumeric'
        return v

print(UserModel(id=1, name='John Doe'))
#> id=1 name='John Doe'

try:
    UserModel(id=1, name='samuel')
except ValidationError as e:
    print(e)
    """
    1 validation error for UserModel
    name
      Value error, must contain a space [type=value_error, input_value='samuel', input_type=str]
    """

try:
    UserModel(id='abc', name='John Doe')
except ValidationError as e:
    print(e)
    """
    1 validation error for UserModel
    id
      Input should be a valid integer, unable to parse string as an integer [type=int_parsing, input_value='abc', input_type=str]
    """

try:
    UserModel(id=1, name='John Doe!')
except ValidationError as e:
    print(e)
    """
    1 validation error for UserModel
    name
      Assertion failed, name must be alphanumeric
    assert False [type=assertion_error, input_value='John Doe!', input_type=str]
    """
```

A few things to note on validators:

> * validators are "class methods", so the first argument value they receive is the `UserModel` class, not an instance of `UserModel`. We recommend you use the `@classmethod` decorator on them below the `@field_validator` decorator to get proper type checking.

Reviewer: I think it's maybe worth drawing the distinction between field_validator and model_validator, or somehow accounting for the fact that `@model_validator(mode='after')` can be used on instance methods. I'm not saying we need to say that here in full detail, but I think maybe we should phrase this point in a way that feels less in-conflict with that fact.

Reviewer: (One way to achieve that might be to replace "validators" with "`field_validator`s" in this text

* the second argument is the field value to validate; it can be named as you please
* the third argument, if present, is an instance of `pydantic.FieldValidationInfo`
* validators should either return the parsed value or raise a `ValueError` or `AssertionError` (``assert`` statements may be used).
* A single validator can be applied to multiple fields by passing it multiple field names.
* A single validator can also be called on *all* fields by passing the special value `'*'`.

!!! warning
    If you make use of `assert` statements, keep in mind that running
    Python with the [`-O` optimization flag](https://docs.python.org/3/using/cmdline.html#cmdoption-o)
    disables `assert` statements, and **validators will stop working**.

> If you want to access values from another field you can use `FieldValidationInfo.data`, which is a dict of field name to field value.
> Validation is done in the order fields are defined, so you have to be careful when using `FieldValidationInfo.data` to not access a field that has not yet been validated/populated.
> In the example above you would not be able to access `info.data['id']` from within `name_must_contain_space`.
> For a more flexible approach to this we recommend you use `@model_validator`, which is discussed in the section below.

Reviewer: I think it might be good to phrase this even more aggressively, something like:
```suggestion
If you want to access values from another field inside a `@field_validator`, this may be possible using `FieldValidationInfo.data`, which is a dict of field name to field value.
Validation is done in the order fields are defined, so you have to be careful when using `FieldValidationInfo.data` to not access a field that has not yet been validated/populated — 
in the code above, for example, you would not be able to access `info.data['id']` from within `name_must_contain_space`.
However, in most cases where you want to perform validation using multiple field values, it is better to use `@model_validator` which is discussed in the section below.
```
But I leave it up to you.

    """
```

Model validators can be `mode='before'` or `mode='after'` and `mode='wrap'`.

Before model validators are passed the raw input which is often a `dict[str, Any]` but could also be an instance of the model itself (e.g. if `UserModel.model_validate(UserModel.construct(...))` is called) or anything else since you can pass arbitrary objects into `model_validate`.
Because of this before validators are extremely flexible and powerful but can be cumbersome and error prone to implement.
Before model validators should be class methods.
The first argument should be `cls` (and we also recommend you use `@classmethod` below `@model_validator` for proper type checking), the second argument will be the input (you should generally type it as `Any` and use `isinstance` to narrow the type) and the third argument (if present) will be a `pydantic.ValidationInfo`.

After validators are instance methods and always receive an instance of the model as the first argument.
You should not use `(cls, ModelType)` as the signature, instead just use `(self)` and let type checkers infer the type of `self` for you.

> Since these are fully type safe they are often easier to implement than before validators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since these are fully type safe they are often easier to implement than `mode='before'` model_validators.
```
It's easy for us to read the docs and understand when we are using the words "before", "after", "validator" as referencing specific concepts, but I think it might be a bit harder for people needing to go through these docs, so I would suggest trying to make it more clear when it's a reference to a specific concept (e.g., `mode='before'`, or `@model_validator`) rather than using "normal" language, since I think it will cost new readers some cognitive overhead to parse 
> After validators are instance methods ...
as
> `mode='after'` validators are instance methods ...
rather than
> After the point in time that validators are instance methods ...

Obviously they won't stay confused for long, I just think it's a pattern we can try to follow to make this all that much easier to read.

> If any field fails to validate after validators will not be called.

Reviewer: Another good example that I think could be hard for a newcomer to make sense of right away. If you don't immediately realize that "after validators" need to be grouped together as a concept, it is easy to read one word at a time and think that it's about to explain to me that something might happen before a field fails to validate that would affect something later, and then think "was there a typo/grammar error here?".

I think the following prevents that misread:
```suggestion
If any field fails to validate, `mode='after'` validators will not be called.
```

## Handling errors in validators

> As mentioned in the previous sections validators can raise either a `ValueError` or `AssertionError` (including ones generated by `assert ...` statements).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned in the previous sections you can raise either a `ValueError` or `AssertionError` (including ones generated by `assert ...` statements) within a validator to indicate validation failed.
```

- [`InstanceOf`][pydantic.functional_validators.InstanceOf] is a type that can be used to validate that a value is an instance of a given class.

```py
from typing import List

from pydantic import BaseModel, InstanceOf, ValidationError

class Fruit:
    def __repr__(self):
        return self.__class__.__name__

class Banana(Fruit):
    ...

class Apple(Fruit):
    ...

class Basket(BaseModel):
    fruits: List[InstanceOf[Fruit]]

print(Basket(fruits=[Banana(), Apple()]))
#> fruits=[Banana, Apple]
try:
    Basket(fruits=[Banana(), 'Apple'])
except ValidationError as e:
    print(e)
    """
    1 validation error for Basket
    fruits.1
      Input should be an instance of Fruit [type=is_instance_of, input_value='Apple', input_type=str]
    """
```

- [`SkipValidation`][pydantic.functional_validators.SkipValidation] is a type that can be used to skip validation on a field.

```py
from typing import List

from pydantic import BaseModel, SkipValidation

class Model(BaseModel):
    names: List[SkipValidation[str]]

m = Model(names=['foo', 'bar'])
print(m)
#> names=['foo', 'bar']

m = Model(names=['foo', 123])  # (1)!
print(m)
#> names=['foo', 123]
```

> 1. Note that the validation of the second item is skipped.

Reviewer: I'd maybe add a note that if the value has the wrong type due to skipped validation, a warning may be produced during serialization.
